README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">FX Rates API</h1>

Please check the [REQUIREMENTS.md](./REQUIREMENTS.md) to review the purpose of this project.

# Getting Started

## Open API / Swagger

- API Docs: `{baseUrl}/v3/api-docs`
- Swagger UI: `{baseUrl}/swagger-ui/index.html`

## Sample Requests

```shell
BASE_URL=http://localhost:8080/api
```

View all available currency symbols
```shell
curl "$BASE_URL/symbols"
```

Exchange 10 USD to PHP
```shell
curl "$BASE_URL/exchange?base=USD&target=PHP&amount=10"
```

Exchange 1.5 AED to PHP
```shell
curl "$BASE_URL/exchange?base=AED&target=PHP&amount=1.5"
```

## Prerequisites

- Java 11

## Development

### Build

```sh
./gradlew build

# win
gradlew.bat build
```

### Running

```sh
# unix
./gradlew bootRun

# win
gradlew.bat bootRun
```

# Providers

There are two providers for both the rate and symbols. The default provider is `exchangeratesapi.io`.

## Provider Limitations

### exchangeratesapi.io

- There’s a limit to the number of requests per month
- For the full list of limitations, please check their [documentation](https://exchangeratesapi.io/documentation/).

### Fake Provider

- Only supports limited rates. See the table below for the mappings.

| Base | Target | Rate  |
|------|--------|-------|
| USD  | PHP    | 52.17 |
| PHP  | USD    | 0.019 |
| AED  | JPY    | 93.49 |
| JPY  | AED    | 0.011 |
| EUR  | GBP    | 0.83  |
| GBP  | EUR    | 1.21  |

The rates provided from the table is just a fake data, and not necessarily precise, this fake provider is only useful
for testing the behavior of our service. They are just for demonstration purposes, and querying `USD` to `AED` for
instance will not work, as there is no mapping between them. Please use the [exchangerates.io](http://exchangerates.io)
provider if you want to test with multiple currencies.

Check "Changing providers" section on how to change a provider.

## Changing Providers

### exchangeratesapi.io Provider

This is the default provider. Check the "Running" section.

### Fake Provider

You can change it to a `fake` provider by changing the active profile to `local`.

```bash
# unix
SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=local ./gradlew bootRun

# win
SET SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=local
gradlew.bat bootRun
```

### Checking Current Provider

To verify the current provider in use. Call the `/api/provider` endpoint.

```shell
BASE_URL=localhost:8080/api
curl "$BASE_URL/provider"
```

# Notes

- Buying and selling currencies, will use the `/api/exchange` endpoint. Both of them will provide `base`, `target`, and the `amount` just in different context.
  - For instance, when a user wants to BUY `USD` worth 10 `PHP` to another party, they will have `/api/exchange?base=PHP&target=USD&amount=10`.
  - If they are going to sell 100 `PHP` to another party with `AED` currency, they will have `/api/exchange?base=PHP&target=AED&amount=100`.

Commit message:

feat: implement exchange api provider

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">FX Rates API</h1>

Please check the [REQUIREMENTS.md](./REQUIREMENTS.md) to review the purpose of this project.

# Getting Started

## Open API / Swagger UI

- API Docs: `{baseUrl}/v3/api-docs`
- Swagger UI: `{baseUrl}/swagger-ui/index.html`

## Sample Requests

```shell
BASE_URL=http://localhost:8080/api
```

View all available currency symbols
```shell
curl "$BASE_URL/symbols"
```

Exchange 10 USD to PHP
```shell
curl "$BASE_URL/exchange?base=USD&target=PHP&amount=10"
```

Exchange 1.5 AED to PHP
```shell
curl "$BASE_URL/exchange?base=AED&target=PHP&amount=1.5"
```

## Prerequisites

- Java 11
- API key from https://exchangeratesapi.io
  - Use `fake` provider if you do not want to sign up. See "Changing Providers" section.

## Development

### Build

```sh
./gradlew build

# win
gradlew.bat build
```

### Running

```sh
# unix
./gradlew bootRun

# win
gradlew.bat bootRun
```

# Providers

There are two providers for both the rate and symbols. The default provider is `exchangeratesapi.io`.

## Provider Limitations

### exchangeratesapi.io

- There’s a limit to the number of requests per month
- For the full list of limitations, please check their [documentation](https://exchangeratesapi.io/documentation/).

### Fake Provider

- Only supports limited rates. See the table below for the mappings.

| Base | Target | Rate  |
|------|--------|-------|
| USD  | PHP    | 52.17 |
| PHP  | USD    | 0.019 |
| AED  | JPY    | 93.49 |
| JPY  | AED    | 0.011 |
| EUR  | GBP    | 0.83  |
| GBP  | EUR    | 1.21  |

The rates provided from the table is just a fake data, and not necessarily precise, this fake provider is only useful
for testing the behavior of our service. They are just for demonstration purposes, and querying `USD` to `AED` for
instance will not work, as there is no mapping between them. Please use the [exchangerates.io](http://exchangerates.io)
provider if you want to test with multiple currencies.

Check "Changing providers" section on how to change a provider.

## Changing Providers

### exchangeratesapi.io Provider

This is the default provider. Check the "Running" section.

### Fake Provider

You can change it to a `fake` provider by changing the active profile to `local`.

```bash
# unix
SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=local ./gradlew bootRun

# win
SET SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=local
gradlew.bat bootRun
```

### Checking Current Provider

To verify the current provider in use. Call the `/api/provider` endpoint.

```shell
BASE_URL=localhost:8080/api
curl "$BASE_URL/provider"
```

# Notes

- Buying and selling currencies, will use the `/api/exchange` endpoint. Both of them will provide `base`, `target`, and the `amount` just in different context.
  - For instance, when a user wants to BUY `USD` to another party, and they want to spend 10 `PHP`, they will have `/api/exchange?base=PHP&target=USD&amount=10`.
  - If they are going to SELL 100 `PHP` to another party with `AED` currency, they will have `/api/exchange?base=PHP&target=AED&amount=100`.
- We are only exposing three endpoints.
  - `GET /api/exchange` - the only responsibility of this endpoint is to provide the value based from the derived `rate` of `base` and `target` currency. Selling and buying foreign currency can both use this endpoint, they just need to switch out the `base` and `target`.
  - `GET /api/symbols` - list supported currency symbols
  - `GET /api/provider` - to easily verify what provider is in use.
    - exchange rates - default provider
    - fake provider - provides limited symbols and rates
- Here are some improvements/considerations for future development
  - More logs and control
  - Cached data are stored in memory, this can be improved by using a Redis or a similar service.
  - Better handling of Access Token, we can set up a config server for the application bootstrap
  - Ability to configure API timeouts
  - Rate limiting and rate throttling
  - Better API client design for future work if required, but right now, we only want to build URLs based on a path, it limits building complex queries.-
